In this video I'll demonstrate some common troubleshooting options for virtual machines.
We're going to start by looking at this virtual machine called the motion demo.
And one of the first troubleshooting steps that I like to take when I look at a virtual machine.
Is to determine if it has VM or tools installed on it and you can see that this virtual machine does
not.
So what does that mean for this particular VM.
Well number one it means that if I console when my mouse and keyboard aren't really going to work as
well as they would if I had VM or tools installed.
That's really no big deal.
But the other part that is more important is the balloon driver will not be installed on this virtual
machine.
And that means if there is a shortage of memory on the ESX host the host will not be able to perform
ballooning on this Wii.
And that essentially means that it won't be able to reclaim that memory from this virtual machine even
if the virtual machine is no longer using that memory.
So that's an important part of VM more tools to have that balloon driver installed on your vim's so
we can see right here this virtual machine does not have VM or tools installed.
It's very easy to install VM tools on a virtual machine.
You can just right click it and right now the virtual machine is powered off.
But you just right click it and go ahead and go to Guest OS and do install VM are tools.
It's very simple.
Another thing that I like to do edit the settings of this VM for Aviemore tools is make sure my VM are
tools.
Installation is always up to date.
Right so you can go to the VM options here.
And under VM tools you can choose to have VM or tools automatically upgrade every time this VM is powered
on.
Right so thats a great way to ensure that VM or tools is always consistently kept up to date
while we're in here.
Let's take a look at a couple other configuration options on this VM.
Maybe I am having an issue V motioning this virtual machine to a different host that can occur if I've
created a scheduling affinity for this VM.
Also if I'm having performance issues on this virtual machine and it looks like CPQ you might be the
problem maybe I've created a CPE limit.
Maybe I've limited this VM to a certain amount of maigre hurts of CPQ usage.
Or maybe I've given it a low number of shares.
These are things that could definitely negatively impact the performance of this VM.
Similar settings exist under memory.
I can create memory limits so I could limit this VM to 20 megs of memory and if I do that the performance
of the VM probably isn't going to be very good right.
So memory limits CPQ limits those can all create potential problems and a change in my memory reservation
back to zero.
That's another really good thing to be aware of though.
So if you'll notice when I came in here my virtual machine had a memory reservation.
So let's take a moment to talk about what a virtual machines memory reservation actually does.
So here we have a VM called the motion demo which is currently running on this host.
Let's just call a host one or three and this host has a total of 19 gigs of memory available.
So I'm going to go to my Wii motion demo VM and I'm going to right click the virtual machine and go
to settings
and we're going to go ahead and give this virtual machine a lot of memory and I'm going to give it 19
gigs of memory which is pretty much the most that I could possibly support for virtual machine.
ESX I host and I'll go ahead and give it a memory reservation as well.
So I'm going to reserve all to memory basically saying if I've configured 19 gigs of memory for this
VM we are going to guarantee this VM.
19 gigs of memory all the time.
Any time you boot this virtual machine up it's going to get that 19 gigs of memory.
So we have now guaranteed this VM.
19 gigs of memory at all times.
So let's go ahead and power on this virtual machine and see what happens.
So I just click the button the power on the VM and you'll notice here a little notification popped up
power on virtual machine failed.
So let's take a closer look and see why I was not able to power on this VM.
Will go to monitor tasks and events and we're going to look at tasks
and see what went wrong here.
The host does not have sufficient memory resources to satisfy the reservation.
I've configured a reservation on this via And that means that it also comes with something called admission
control.
Admission control is basically the guarantee part of this right.
My VM can not boot up unless the host can actually satisfy this reservation that I've created so I've
guaranteed this VM 19 gigs of memory any time that is powered up.
But my host can't do that my hosts can't satisfy that memory reservation so let's change the memory
reservation to something more more doable for my ESX host.
Right now we can see we have 19 gigs of memory for this VM.
I'm going to change it back to 4 gigs.
OK.
And now let's try and power on this VM and see if we're able to power on now.
And it should work just fine.
Because that's a reservation that this ESX host can definitely satisfy.
So my VM is now successfully powered on.
So for issues like not being able to power on a VM or general performance issues reservation's limits
sharers.
Those are all important configurations to take a look at.
Here we see a second VM this VM is currently an old version of virtual hardware.
Right that means it's not going to support some of the latest maximums and options that a virtual machine
on the current version of virtual hardware would be able to support.
So I'm going to Right-Click this virtual machine and go to edit settings and you'll notice that in the
edit settings screen you have the ability to schedule a virtual hardware upgrade.
The next time this VM boots up I can change the virtual hardware version to one of these newer versions
like for example ESX I-65.
So I'm going to go ahead and hit OK here and then next time I power on this VM the virtual hardware
version is going to be updated.
So let's go ahead and power on VM one will go to monitor and we'll look at tasks and events and will
validate that the virtual machine is actually upgraded to the latest revision.
And another way to actually look at this is we can just simply right click the virtual machine right
now go to edit settings
and you can see the virtual machines compatability mode listed here and now it V.M. version 13 compatible
with ESX I 6.5.
All right let's think about some other potential problems that could exist with our virtual machines.
So let's say that you've decided hey I want to install a Windows Server 2012 on this VM.
So I'm going right click the VM go to edit settings and when you create a virtual machine you're essentially
creating virtual hardware.
Right.
So you may create a set of virtual hardware that's compatible with the 32 bit operating systems or 64
bit operating systems if you don't have the right virtual hardware you're not going to be able to run
your operating system.
So here you can see for the guest OS version on this VM I've chosen Windows Server 2008 R2 64 bit if
you choose the improper operating system when you create the VM that can cause some problems and you
might not actually be able to boot up that operating system.
So you can modify these here after the fact and I'm just going to go ahead and Right-Click VM one and
power it off.
You can modify the guest operating system selection here doesn't actually change the guest operating
system that is running in a VM.
It just changes the guest operating system designation of the VM itself.
So we can go to edit settings here and we can modify the guest operating system now.
Now you may notice that even after you change this you're still unable to boot your virtual machine.
And sometimes if you don't choose the correct operating system initially you may actually need to blow
away that VM and build a new virtual machine with the proper guest operating system selected.
Now while we're looking at the settings for VM one there's just a couple other settings I want to take
a quick look at.
Here's our network adapter.
Notice here we have a network adapter type that's not supported by Windows Server 2012.
And so in this scenario we've got a network adapter you 1000 that's not actually supported anymore.
So we may want to replace that with a different network adapter.
And this time around
we'll choose the VM X net three virtual network interface card type.
So rather than choose the 1000 let's choose the VM x 3 which is really best practice in the vast majority
of use cases and it's supported by just about every operating system now.
And we'll go ahead and we'll hit OK so we can't change the type of virtual Nic after the fact but we
can always create a new virtual neck.
And then just go into the guest operating system and move our IP address over.